---
layout: post
title:  New Year, New Me
date:   2021-01-03 12:39:31 -0700
categories: blog
image: /assets/img/blog/2021-01-03-pink-clouds.jpg
caption: Cotton candy clouds floating above the peaceful desert in Palm Springs
---
The year of 2020 flew by in the blink of an eye. Even though we are now a few days into January, I feel half of myself stuck in March, at the brink of quarantine when the world was naïve and hopeful that we would return to normalcy soon, and the other half in December, jaded from almost a whole year of disappointments and trauma. The months in between flowed into each other and melted into one, until they all became unrecognizable from one another. The new year seems just an extension of the past year––not a flip of the switch or the reset of a clock, but rather a continuation of a badly malfunctioning circuit. After all, the notion of time has always been a social construct anyway. 

As opposed to the unrestrained and ambitious excitement the new year normally brings, there is instead a feeling of cautious optimism floating in the air around us. In spite of the madness that was 2020, to celebrate the last days before the dawn of the new year, three friends and I traveled to Palm Springs for a week-long getaway. We remained COVID-conscious throughout the trip, doing our best to not contribute to the rising numbers of cases near LA County. We were able to rent an Airbnb in La Quinta, a city near the Coachella Valley and Joshua Tree National Park with very Bohemian desert vibes, that was further from the more contaminated parts of civilization. As I do not live in SoCal, I had to endure a 6-hour long drive to Palm Springs, which was made more tolerable by the presence of my really good friend. I am ultimately glad that I was able to spend precious time with friends and reflect on the past year of events.

I. **Sunday**  
The trip started with dragging my body out of my house to join my really good friend on the way to Berkeley. Because of the extensive drive from LA, though we originally wanted to go to the Memorial Glade on campus around sunset and take  pictures, it was past dusk by the time we got to Berkeley. (Daylight savings is such a butt.) We exchanged belated Christmas presents, of which mine was wrapped inside a box that used to be for a mug set collection, topped with a single layer of wrapping paper and fifteen tape pieces barely stitching it together. I recently watched a Tiktok where this guy somehow wrapped a present into the shape of something completely different from the original item, and I wished I had possessed that annoying talent when I was wrapping mine so I could have disguised a weighted blanket as a ladder. Later that night, we ordered Chipotle a few minutes before it closed, which I barely stomached half of, and Little Gem Belgian Waffles as dessert. After that massive intake of food and sugar, we descended into a food coma that lasted until next morning.

II. **Monday**  
Today was a driving day––first a 6-hour drive from Berkeley to LA, then a few more hours for picking up the rest of the group and going to the Airbnb. We made a stop in San Francisco at a CVS Minute Clinic to get a COVID-19 rapid result test, since it was difficult to reserve a time slot less than 2 days before and we needed our results immediately. As we approached Santa Clara, we decided to make a stop at Seven Leaves, where I bought Mung Bean Milk Tea to satisfy my boba cravings. The drive started out smoothly, with a few hiccups in between, where I got distracted by some cows on the side of the road and crossed the middle dividing lane for a hot and scary second. Later, due to intense winds and on-and-off rain, the top half of the right windshield wiper decided to decapitate itself from the rest of its body and ricocheted off the front window of the car, which freaked us out. At the halfway checkpoint of our drive, we stopped at a McDonald's to relieve our bladders and eat a late lunch (my half unfinished Chipotle).

Once we picked up the rest of the party, we dropped by the local HMart to pick up some meat for hotpot, six different fish balls, dumpling sauce, green onions, tofu, enoki mushrooms, and more. Unfortunately, there were no Asian grocery stores near our Airbnb, so we had to pick up most of our hotpot ingredients before we officially departed. We drove for another hour (and a little bit more due to unanticipated traffic), where along the way we saw for a brief moment a massive truck that had yeeted itself across the middle barrier of the highway, with the destruction obstructing several lanes on both sides. I can't even fathom how it was able to split itself across the barrier, which looked at least five feet tall. Finally, we arrived at our Airbnb, which was comfy for our tired backs and necks and nicely furnished with clean rooms, snacks, and amenities for our deprived souls.

For dinner, we *attempted* to eat hotpot, which was interrupted midway by an uninhibited drinking session. To paint a picture of what the ensuing damage looked like: the next day a fork was found bathing inside the hotpot entangled in sticky udon noodles, a nearly full plate of spoiled cabbage sat on the table, and a dozen fish balls were sulking in a pile untouched.

{% include image.html url="/assets/img/blog/2021-01-03-hotpot.jpg" alt="Hotpot" caption="An ambitious miso hotpot, featuring a pyramid of tofus, haystack of enoki mushrooms, and an assortment of meats and vegetables" %}

III. **Tuesday**  
The next day was lethargic at best, for reasons insinuated above. The miso soup made for a soothing hangover meal as well as getting rid of the leftover hotpot from the night before. The thought of hand sanitizer triggered our gag reflex, but as law-abiding citizens we made sure to moisturize our hands with the anti-COVID-19 lotion. We had also set up my camera on a slanted tripod to record our shenanigans, but my camera was incapable of capturing videos for longer than ten minutes and we naturally forgot to reset it each time, which resulted in three choppy videos of slight chaos and unclear significance. On another note, since we had time to kill in the early afternoon, my really good friend helped me build a PC after acquiring most of the parts, after I made a half-impulsive decision to buy a PC for miscellaneous purposes.

Since Palm Springs is known for being a desert landscape with abundant hiking trails, we decided to see the wonders of the dry land for ourselves. We strolled on a sidewalk beside the mountains, which was like a knockoff of a hiking trail since we were just walking on flat land for most of the path. There was a huge trench that separated the sidewalk from the mountains, which was also a bit strange. We stumbled upon a few small dilapidated buildings that looked like they were part of an old sewage system, and decided to cross the trench to get a better look. An Illuminati pyramid, references to a horror movie, and other scribbles were drawn on the sides. On the other hand, we saw some pink fluffy clouds that looked a little too perfectly voluminous to not be a painting, as well as streaks of the beautiful sunset across the horizon of the desert. As the afternoon turned into night, we aimed to reach the Bear Creek Oasis, which underwhelmingly turned out to be simply a picnic table area. Nonetheless, it was a nice walk of exercise and fresh air.

{% include image.html url="/assets/img/blog/2021-01-03-oasis-trail.jpg" alt="Oasis Trail" caption="Mostly just rocks and dried bushes and stuff. Still pretty cool though." %}

That evening, we made a trip to Ralph's and stocked up on a whole lotta snaccs, along with some ingredients for KBBQ that we planned to have the next night. For dinner, we waited at an In N Out drive-thru to order juicy cheeseburgers for our starving bodies, as we sucked on our gogurts and read out the bad and obvious Spongebob Squarepants trivia questions that were on them. It's safe to say that the double-double cheeseburgers that we each ordered, plus some more, satiated our hunger. Close to midnight, inspired by our earlier conversation about horror movies and scary stuff, we decided to play *Left 4 Dead*, which I was tragically bad at and engaged in an abundant amount of friendly fire (yes, I could not discern my teammates from the zombies for the first five rounds). Somehow, we ended up playing rounds until it was 5 am in the morning, at which point I was absolutely drained and my head hurt from playing too much FPS.

IV. **Wednesday**  
Our Airbnb had an unheated pool, which turned out to be more problematic than we expected. In the smack dab middle of winter, we tried to go swimming in it, but I was only able to submerge myself up to my shoulders for barely ten milliseconds before I scurried out of that cursed block of ice. I also sat on that floaty device for about ten minutes, aimlessly drifting on top of the pool as I shivered from the cold. After I got out of the pool, I rushed into a hot shower so I could feel the warmth of being human again.

{% include image.html url="/assets/img/blog/2021-01-03-airbnb-pool.jpg" alt="Airbnb Pool" caption="This pool is not what it seems––it is actually a freezer thirsty for the warm bodies of humans" %}

Since we prepared the boneless ribeye pork meat we bought yesterday, we were more than ready to indulge in plentiful KBBQ for dinner. Yes, I bought and shipped a portable indoor grill to the Airbnb, which thankfully arrived on time. It was hands-down one of the best purchases I made this year. We poured the bulgogi on the grill and watched it sizzle as the room filled with its sweet aroma. The meat was really tasty and incredibly tender, filling our stomachs with happiness and also helping us devour the bag of rice we bought. There was also some tofu and bok choy stir fry, which I'm sure was delishious though I didn't get a bite because I was already very stuffed with bulgogi and rice.

{% include image.html url="/assets/img/blog/2021-01-03-kbbq.jpg" alt="KBBQ" caption="Delishious bulgogi that we marinated and then cooked on the grill, with some stir fry and berry smoothies on the side" %}

Later, we played some more *Left 4 Dead*. This time, we attempted an easier level as we constantly got clapped in advanced mode, so it was more feasible for us to complete the checkpoints. However, after two or so hours, I was overcome with nausea and dizziness again, which forced me to retreat to bed to rest my head and eyes from staring intensely at the monitor screen trying to kill zombies. Fortunately, this time I avoided a terrible bedtime and slept before midnight.

V. **Thursday**  
I woke up with a *huge* appetite for some reason, so I baked a batch of a dozen chocolate chip cookies from the box, which turned out to be much nicer than I expected, even though they were overly thin and crispy. My intensely ravenous stomach couldn't control itself and downed some easy oatmeal and two scrambled eggs as well. Overcome with a baby food coma, I decided to take advantage of noontime to bask in the sun beside the pool. It was very warm and comforting, which posed a great challenge for my body to stay awake.

Later that afternoon, we played two rounds of Catan, the latter of which was extremely long and *absolutely insane*. We rolled 7's a suspiciously high number of times, to the point that we thought the die were rigged and there had to be some paranormal force directing the fate of our game by stalling it forever. As we believed we were cursed by said paranormal force, we placed the robber onto the desert square in the center of the board, in an attempt to break the *curse of the seven's*. It worked to some degree, as we stopped rolling the 7's consecutively. However, we rolled an inordinate number of 11's as well, which is strange given that it has only a 2/36 probability, leading me to think that perhaps there is a connection between the 7's and 11's... The Catan set may have become the ouija board for Beyoncé's spirit. We also played Coup, which was very entertaining, despite the fact my assassins were always blocked by contessas and my brain was too small to count cards and see through my friends' lies. Ignorance is bliss and sometimes it's fun to be bamboozled.

Finally, we ended our trip with some hotpot to clean out the food from our fridge. I made sure to eat more of it this time, as the first night ended too quickly and I barely finished a bowl of miso soup and semi-raw noodles. I also blended smoothies using the same frozen berry mix as before, but I added dark chocolate and cherry ice cream into the combo as well, which personally ruined the flavor a little and made the texture more gloppy. I was also feeling experimental and drizzled some trail mix on top of my smoothie bowl. As the clock neared midnight, we prepared for the incoming new year. We celebrated by throwing an indoor rave using the TV in the living room, which served as an opportunity to share emotional stories of honesty and reflection upon this past year.

VI. **Friday**  
Today was the checkout day, so we hurriedly cleaned all the dishes and packed up our stuff to leave the Airbnb. Sadly, our trip has come to an end, but hopefully there will be more chances to make fond memories in the future. In spirit of the new year, I want to take some time to reflect on 2020 and what I hope to change for 2021.

{% include image.html url="/assets/img/blog/2021-01-03-graffiti.jpg" alt="Graffiti" caption="A weird graffiti of an odd quote inside a sewage silo or whatever it is called" %}

I don't need to go into detail about the current events that have ravaged our country this past year. Needless to say, they encompassed some of the worst things to happen in recent U.S. history. In my personal life, I faced numerous situations that tested my patience and ability to function as a normal human being. It was mentally tough and physically restricting to be in long periods of self-isolation. Most importantly, my inability to create new memories forced me to replay old ones in my head. I felt trapped in the past, which made me feel strong regret for things that I wish I had done when life used to be normal.

For my entire life, my self-worth revolved around my accomplishments. When I failed, the positive image I had of myself faltered. Without goals that I wanted to achieve, I felt worthless. My upbringing taught me this mindset, and I spent this entire year fighting against it. Over the summer, I realized what was really important to me. It wasn't my grades, double majors, summer internship, or club leadership positions. They all gave me a short-lived feeling of satisfaction that wasn't truly fulfilling. Instead, it was the people around me that kept me going––both the relationships that lasted and those that didn't. Friendships and memories that I made gave me more fulfillment than the incremental goals that I set for myself. So, I spent the past year prioritizing the time I spent catching up with friends, playing games, and just relaxing, even alone. I am proud of the friendships I kept and grew in the midst of the pandemic––and for those that faded away, that's 100% okay, too.

In many ways, I don't really know who I am. It's hard to engage in time-consuming hobbies and figure out things you want to dedicate your entire life to. Being a jack of all trades means being a master of none. I have spread myself out so thin constantly to the point where I am not sure where my center of gravity lies. It's also insane to think about how you dedicate a decade of your life to an activity only to never touch it again. This is true for many people, such as the piano lessons that your parents force you into and you succumb to for the next ten years of your childhood. Nowadays, getting a decent night of sleep is hard to come by, and oftentimes I spend every waking moment just studying for classes and not enjoying any of the assignments that I do. Activities that used to seem like a chore––practicing piano, running, playing sports, and drawing––are now activities that I wish I had time for. In the new year, I hope that I can better balance my time and responsibilities and devote more time to have fun and figure myself out.

Happy new year, and until next time!
