---
layout: post
title:  Our Social Dilemma
date:   2020-09-20 12:39:31 -0700
categories: blog
image: /assets/img/blog/2020-09-20-kimchi-tofu-soup.jpg
---
I visited a couple of friends in Berkeley this past weekend, which was a nice change from the stagnant and boring #WFH life that has drained me of motivation and happiness for the last four weeks. I ended up eating way too much day, first filling myself with some spicy chilaquiles at Scrambl'z on the Alameda, grabbing boba in Berkeley from Ucha, snaccing on some popcorn chicken while playing Overcooked, and finally emulating Overcooked in real life by chaotically stirring up some delicious dinner with my friends––kimchi beef tofu soup and scallion pancakes, accompanied by soju and lychee beer.

Luckily, I lived close enough to Berkeley to be able to drive there and visit my friends, whom I kept in contact with throughout the remote semester. Since quarantine though, we have all undeniably become more tied to our social media apps, as it is often the only channel of communication we have with our long-distance friends. Social media is, without a doubt, an integral piece of our life now. But the discussion around social media has always been hazy and troubling––the topics of clickbait, fake news, polarization, privacy invasion, screen addiction, and cyberbullying inevitably arise.

This past Friday, I sat down with my housemate and watched *The Social Dilemma*. In thinking about the subtle but surely detrimental effects of social media on our everyday lives, there have been a lot of up and coming conversations surrounding how we, as software engineers and developers behind these technologies, should be taking more accountability for the platforms we create. After finishing the film, however, I found myself thinking: what exactly is the point of this Netflix documentary, and the way they conveyed the messages to the viewers?

In my opinion, the message of the film was very half-baked; it was unclear whether it was trying to educate its viewers, mobilize them to get off social media and do something to change it, or just be more alert of its potential harmful effects while using it. The CEOs, co-founders, VPs, managers, engineers, and investors who were all invited to answer the questions pitched by the film crew weren't even capable of providing a coherent response to the question: "What is the problem?" So how exactly are we, the general public, who are clearly less knowledgeable about the algorithms and inner workings of these social media apps, able to act against and ultimately help resolve the aforementioned "problem?"

The issue is that the insights that were brought up in the documentary weren't anything new. Many of us, especially the users of social media themselves, have been aware of the dark depths of social media for several years now. The documentary brought up good points and examples of how factors like polarization have made huge and irreversible impacts on the political atmospheres of countries worldwide. But other examples, such as addiction to social media and the implementation of app usage analytics and content recommendation to further that addiction seem a bit trivial at this point. Of course, the profit-driven incentives behind creating features like infinite scrolling are not innocent by any means, but it's time to not think of social media platforms as these monsters who we must completely demolish, but rather as intelligent systems that we can refine and improve for the betterment of society. As consumers of these social media products, we enjoy looking at content that fit within our interests and those interests are constantly reinforced by the similar content we view. The line, however, needs to be drawn when it comes to science, news, and politics, as there are situations where diversity of thought is more important than reinforcement of the same beliefs.

Another issue is the lack of call-to-action at the end of the documentary. There were software engineers and executives of these big tech social media companies who admitted that they create products they even forbid their own children from using. There were other "woke" individuals who left their previous companies and are now currently just in this vague state of advocacy against the platforms they used to build. It is almost frustrating to see that there were so many people working at these companies who decided it was better to leave than to stay and fix it. Okay, you've reached a point of enlightenment and now you're preaching to the rest of us, who are all pretty much powerless to change the problem, whatever that is. Now what?

Black mirror episodes don't seem to be such an implausible future now. Hopefully films like *The Social Dilemma* can shine light upon these issues to those who have not yet been exposed to the numerous dangerous impacts of social media. However, *The Social Dilemma* failed to address what we can do to actively resolve the problems that were brought up in the documentary, and it ultimately left me feeling more pessimistic than hopeful about the future of our society.

Until next time.
