---
layout: post
title:  Wine and Cheese
date:   2020-12-27 12:39:31 -0700
categories: blog
image: /assets/img/blog/2020-12-27-charcuterie.jpg
---
As the new year approaches, today marks one of the last few days of 2020. The sluggish warmth and comfort from Christmas and the holiday season is slowly fading away, replaced by the jittery excitement and anticipation for the new year. Yesterday, my housemates and I met up for a belated cheese charcuterie and board game night, along with our annual secret santa exchange. We couldn't quite have a wine and cheese night, but we bought some sparkling cranberry apple cider instead to celebrate. We played a heated game of Catan, where I emerged as the underdog winner––I choked early-game when I stifled my horizontal expansion by constantly building roads that got blocked, but was able to pull the largest army card and upgraded my four settlements vertically into cities, ultimately winning the ten points of victory. With my stomach full of crackers, salami, and orange juice, I felt triumphant and satiated.

On a separate tangent, I feel like Wachi would be a really cute and sophisticated name for a dog. In Korean, it is spelled <span class="thin">와치</span> and it is short for <span class="thin">와인과 치즈</span>, which means "wine and cheese." The first time I saw this abbreviation was when I watched New Journey to the West (신서유기), a South Korean variety TV show inspired by the original Chinese story where the hosts and guests travel to an unrevealed place in Asia and play silly games to win the seven "dragon balls," which can be traded for expensive rewards. The show remains one of the most creative and entertaining variety shows I have ever watched and features guests including my favorite Korean idol artist Mino. I binged the first few seasons of the show several times, which subconsciously taught me a lot about the South Korean language and culture, as the show included frequent references to 4-character proverbs, popular songs from the late 1900s and early 2000s, and famous movies and actors. Being reminded of the show makes me feel nostalgic, as it takes me back to my high school days when I used to lavishly spend my free time rewatching episodes. Nowadays, it is rare for me to find the time and opportunity of boredom to successfully binge watch a long season of a TV show, let alone several. I tend to gravitate towards the Youtube tab in my browser instead, fooling myself into thinking that going down a rabbit hole of David Dobrik videos would save a lot more time than one or two seasons of *The Good Place*.

Though I do pay for a Netflix monthly subscription, I admit that I don't take full advantage of its content. Recently, I finished watching *The Queen's Gambit*, as it was a perfect length for me to finish in just a few days. Throughout the show, I kept thinking Anna Taylor-Joy had a striking resemblance to Emma Watson, but maybe I was just thrown off by the redhead hair, high cheekbones, and the upturned lips that the character often wore on her face as she obliterated her chess opponents. Nevertheless, I enjoyed being invested in her journey as she came out on top as the best chess grandmaster, smothering her Russian enemies. The glorified and dramatized picture of the classic board game that the show painted made me wish that I knew how to play chess. As a kid, I used to play a handful of board games like chess, checkers, Chinese checkers, backgammon, and Go, although now all the rules are hazy to me as I haven't played in almost a decade. I don't have much deftness in board games in general, as my victory in Catan was mostly based on luck and the element of surprise rather than a calculated strategy, and my face is too much of an open book for dishonest games like Mafia, Secret Hitler, Resistance, and Coup.

Hopefully, in the new year I can allot more time to culture myself about TV shows and movies, and relearn the rules and strategies of many board games. Simultaneously, I need to work on my habit of defaulting to watching Youtube videos that fall into the categories of either degenerate comedy or scary psychological thriller.

See you on the other side. Until next time!