---
layout: post
title:  Hiking Up Memory Lane
date:   2020-09-27 12:39:31 -0700
categories: blog
image: /assets/img/blog/2020-09-27-memory-lane.JPG
---
Midterm season is crashing down on me, and squeezing in a healthy night's worth of sleep during these next two days appears to be a pipe dream. There is probably a psychological reason behind developing a strong aversion to doing work the more work that I have to do, because it is during these busiest days that I lose myself to the distraction that is the meaning of life. I start to wonder whether all the stress and busy work is worth the reward at the end, and whether it is ultimately worth the sacrifice of self-care and joy. I was given the perfect opportunity to indulge in some self-contemplation yesterday, when I went hiking with my family to the one and only place we always go hiking, and produce some brain juice that may be comprehended as thoughts. Again, I maybe shouldn't have spent three hours going hiking when I have two midterms coming up tomorrow, but like I said, I had already succumbed to not doing work when I really should.

1. **Regrets** Quarantine has been a bane and a boon for me. Around March or so, I had hit a very low point of mental stability and I started to feel more worthless and directionless than I had ever felt in my life. I underestimated how much being on campus and physically being around other people brought me a sort of reassuring familiarity and feeling of belonging, like seeing the deadpan faces of student zombies walking around Berkeley and feeling right at home. Just kidding (am I? sorry, I use dark humour to cope). Despite my introverted attraction to spending time alone, I missed hanging out with my friends greatly, and even moreso the freedom I had and activities that I could do outside without worrying about a deadly virus hanging over my head. By far my biggest regret of my college experience, and if I were to extend it chronologically beyond that as well, is something that I call "social suicide." 

    In high school, I was very much the epitome of a bullheaded, academic-focused Bay Area Asian kid desperate to check off the laundry list of accomplishments and get into her top schools. However, I wasn't someone you would deem a genius or a prodigy; in fact, I was very much the opposite. There is a Chinese saying that goes 笨鸟先飞, and it literally means "clumsy birds start flying early." I was a clumsy bird. I came to accept it early on in high school, that I was not blessed by the test-taking gods and if I wanted to achieve the goals I set for myself, I had to work myself to the bone to get it. So, I prioritized school over everything else in life. I gained almost 20 pounds of weight through binge-eating due to stress, and I deliberately shrunk my friend group so I would not be distracted by social activities. I looked down on people who dated, as I viewed it as possibly the worst distraction you could have in high school when you are trying to get into college. 

    When I came to Berkeley, it immediately dawned on me how sheltered my mindset was and how far I lagged behind in my social aptitude. Apparently, the dawning wasn't strong enough, because I still carried out a similar mindset of "work-hard-play-none" up until the spring semester of my sophomore year. And that's when the pandemic hit. I had received my acceptance letter to the undergraduate Haas program at Berkeley a month prior in February, and I used it to justify my laziness and lack of motivation to study for my classes. I wanted to have more fun and make more friends, to make up for the lack of them during my freshman year. However, the quarantine orders put an abrupt end to those wishes, and I was forced to return home. What I would have regarded as a dream in high school to be stuck indoors and left alone was instead a nightmare for me at that point in time.

    I have talked to a few of my friends about my feelings on this topic, as it is probably my biggest regret in life. As of now, COVID-19 is still very much a thing and the idiot sandwich of our country is practically an agreeing victim to it. At this point, I have almost zero hope for next semester to be in-person, sadly, but I will hold onto that slim shimmer of hope for next year. I am glad that quarantine has opened my eyes to this, as it made me appreciate my friendships on a much deeper level. While I wish I could embrace the concept of living life with no regrets, I think that harboring this regret will push me to change things for the better in the future.
    
This post is getting a bit long, so I will end my thoughts here for now. I will make another post in the near future addressing the rest of my thoughts in a more concise way than I did in this one, but getting this one off my chest feels extremely nice and freeing (though I hope reading it won't be that depressing).

Normally, people say that they walk down memory lane, but I decided to put my own twist on the saying by adapting the verb to the activity I was doing when I was actually thinking about those memories, and also changing the direction from "down" to "up." I want to highlight the idea that, rather than viewing those memories as something that exists passively in the past that might drag me backwards, I see them as power-up items that I use to propel me forward in life. 

Until next time!