---
layout: post
title:  Publishing an Article for Mochi Magazine
date:   2020-09-06 12:39:31 -0700
categories: blog
image: /assets/img/blog/2020-09-06-mochi-magazine.png
---
This week has been a wild ride––it has been a little over a full week of school and I may or may not be staying up at 2 am once again, writing for my blog. As always, I cannot let my child that is my lonely thoughts feel abandoned.

I am excited to announce that, after almost a year of being a Campus Ambassador for Mochi Magazine, I published an article! I wrote about Asian American representation in college dance teams, specifically analyzing the social and cultural nuances of its popularity, historical relevance, and its relationship with popular media.

To give some brief context as to how I stumbled here:

During the first semester of my freshman year at Cal, I took a class on Asian American History, with the motivation of fulfilling a breadth requirement for school. It became one of my favorite breadth classes that I have ever taken, and it was eye opening to learn so much about the historical background of Asian immigrants who came to the U.S. hundreds of years ago. I realized that I was privileged to have the opportunity to take a course that taught students the deeply intricate but often ignored history of Asian Americans, and felt empowered to make our voices heard. I sought out the chance to become a Campus Ambassador for Mochi, excited to be part of a platform that could elevate the voices of Asian Americans and shine light upon their contributions to society, business, politics, and pop culture.

This summer as a campus ambassador, I was grateful to be given the opportunity to write an article and have it published on the Mochi platform. It started with having a call with my mentor Yvonne, who was super kind and supportive throughout my journey in Mochi. After I introduced myself to her, she proposed that I could write about my experience being on a dance team at UC Berkeley. I conducted some research into the social and cultural implications behind this phenomenon by reading other articles with similar topics, and combined it with my own observations and anecdotes into an article pitch to submit to the Mochi editors.

Once I was given the green light to start writing, I began to put pen to paper. I reached out to two of my directors for the dance team that I participated in the past spring semester, and asked them four questions related to my article. The questions ranged from "Why did you decide to join an urban dance team at Berkeley?" to "How have you used dance as a form of self-expression or a channel for breaking stereotypes associated with your ethnic identity?" There were also topics I wanted to cover surrounding the #Black Lives Matter movement and how African American hip hop music and dance culture has been diluted over the years, so I also asked about their stances on how these dance teams have borrowed many elements from this hiphop culture and what the fine line is between cultural appropriation and appreciation.

From articles I have researched as well as interviews I conducted with my directors, I gained valuable insights that propelled me to write this article through a more well-rounded, educated lens. The structure of my article began to take shape as I reorganized all the information I gleaned into the article outline. Starting out with an anecdotal narrative, I wanted to help place the reader into the shoes of a UC Berkeley student strolling through the Upper Sproul Plaza of our campus at night, encountering the thick crowds of dancers who are gathered beneath the dimly lit lamps. I initially included the discussion of how these dance teams operate, from auditions and team placement to choreography teaching and socials to the final performance, but I instead decided to focus on the social belonging, cultural, and historical aspects of these college dance teams without going too much in depth about the logistics.

I think what was particularly interesting to me was the discussion around how the major presence of Asian Americans in these college dance teams reveal an underlying social and cultural trend within the Asian American community, and how that sheds light on perhaps some of the stereotypes that we are constantly associated with. Due to platforms such as Youtube known for content democratization, Asians are able to become more known in music, dance, films, and pop culture overall as opposed to the racially stifling and exclusive Hollywood industries that have only 1% of the leading roles played by Asians. These dance teams are able to help many of these "studious", "nerdy" Asians at these top-ranking universities sort of challenge these stereotypes while engaging in an activity that is so creative, enjoyable, and collaborative. The concept of being "nerdy" and being good at dancing or other forms of pop culture should not be mutually exclusive either––the idea that you can only either be a very hardworking, education-oriented person or someone who is more physically active and loves music, dance, and party culture is becoming outdated, as many students, such as those at UC Berkeley (known for being probably the most Asian of all Asian colleges), are able to partake in both.

There were a lot of challenges when writing this piece. Particularly, honing in on the focus of the article was difficult due to the complexity of the issues surrounding the subject––potential exclusivity of these college dance teams, cultural appropriation of hip-hop music and dance, etc. I expressed my concerns to the editors at Mochi, who  guided me in trying to sharpen my focus. I realized how important it is to have an editor or reviewer go through your article and give their thoughts on the overall flow and ideas of your paragraphs. Because I was tackling such a multifaceted and complex issue, it was daunting for me to approach my article in a way that was not too scatter-brained but also not oversimplifying the issues.

As always, there were a lot of ideas I had to leave out in the final release of the article due to the 1000-word length constraint, but I am glad that I was able to keep most of the main ideas I wanted to talk about in my article. My time at Mochi Magazine has (temporarily) come to an end as I won't be able to commit time over my junior year, but I am super grateful to have met such a supportive community and be able to work on my own article. <3

Lastly, you can read my article [here](https://mochimag.com/news/arts-culture/asian-american-college-dance-teams/)!

Until next time!
