---
layout: post
title:  Among Us, Imposters
date:   2020-10-04 12:39:31 -0700
categories: blog
image: /assets/img/blog/2020-10-04-mirror-selfie.jpg
---
Okay, I admit it. I may have developed an (un)healthy obsession with binging Among Us playthroughs on Youtube. I have watched more hours of it than I have played the game myself. My head is ingrained with Toast's snickering cackles as he vent-kills a player, Valkyrae's shrieks of joy--and horror after being betrayed, Sykkuno's calm tone of deceiving comfort, and the iconic dichotomy of Corpse's and Lilypichu's voices. Also, ignore the thumbnail with the huge stye on my left eye and ugly claw hands I'm using to hold my phone--nothing exciting has happened in my life except for living vicariously through Youtubers so this is the only picture that I have after rummaging my camera roll and Snapchat photos this week.

Last Tuesday, we saw a reality TV show episode unfold under the disguise of a presidential debate. Whoever directed this episode really has an eye for surreal comedy. I no longer need to wait for new Black Mirror episodes to be released; all I have to do is open Twitter on my phone and watch tiny teasers of them happening in real life. The iconic lines in the show: "we are on the road to success" (good one, Trump), "he's Putin's puppy" (woof), and of course, who can forget, "will you shut up, man?" are hard-carrying the Rotten Tomatoes rating of this season.

The biggest imposter is the one sitting in the White House right now. I guess it's sort of hypocritical for me to say this, but I am not really sure what is going on in this country anymore. The presidential debate has confirmed my preconception that there is little hope for improvement in this nation without some sort of drastic legislative change or government turnover. Social media has helped both sides of the political spectrum antagonize each other (I wrote more about that [here](/blog/2020/09/20/our-social-dilemma.html)), whilst shining light upon the gross atrocities of the U.S. government on all local, state, and federal levels, such as during the Black Lives Matter movement when even the National Guard was called to stand against the protestors. 

The whole state of this country is depressing, to say the least. I can't fathom the lives of those who are being actively terrorized by the government's incompetence at the moment, whether it be stripping them of their right to basic healthcare needs during this global pandemic or of their right to peaceful protest in the face of cruel police injustice. Oftentimes, I wonder if the people sitting in the seats of government are even aware of the daily tortures that U.S. citizens endure as a result of their ignorance and incapability. There is a weird contradiction in which our country champions self-righteous democracy but is ridden with the dark cobwebs of lies and bureacracy.

Does the President, as well as all the little minions under his wing, ever feel imposter syndrome? I'm sure like any other job out there, there must exist politicians who feel that they are underperforming in their duties, not hitting expectations, or feeling out of place at work. Even the most capable and accomplished people, from software engineers and product managers to doctors and lawyers, have expressed feeling imposter syndrome in their first internship or job. I wonder if working in government has ever humbled people in their roles, because it seems quite the opposite, although I assume it is probably that stubborn American pride that never allows them to admit defeat or fault. 

However, these divides in political discourse and differences in thinking could just be attributed to the huge generational gap prevalent within our government and online communities. Flashbacks of Mark Zuckerberg destroying Orrin Hatch with the one-liner: "Senator, we run ads" come to mind. The "Ok, boomer" mentality seems pretty applicable here too, as I believe that there are many ways in which the older generation parses information and responds to situations much differently than millenials or Gen-Zs do. I have seen Tiktoks where people roleplay as boomers, Gen X, millenials, and Gen Z, and although it is obviously caricatured, there is some truth in the stereotypes of these generations. The shameless, iron-tongued boomers contrast the more soft-spoken, self-aware, and unconfrontational Gen-Zs. I am hopeful and curious to see how the U.S. will change as the younger generation of activists and politicians start filling up the seats in our government.

*Update from the future (Oct 22, 2020): AOC streams Among Us? I would never have expected to hear or see Toast, Corpse, Poki, and the rest of the squad and the goddess herself in the same video. Also, AOC and Ilhan Omar being the two imposters was the best duo. I think this crossover has singlehandedly replenished my hope for our country.*

Until next time!