---
layout: post
title:  Mount Tam, See You Never Again
date:   2020-10-18 12:39:31 -0700
categories: blog
image: /assets/img/blog/2020-10-18-mount-tam.jpg
---
Words can not describe the *physical pain* and *emotional anguish* that I went through on the day that this picture was taken. To provide some much-needed context, I shall backtrack several days to paint a bigger picture of the timeline of events that led up to this point.

Last Wednesday, my housemates and I spontaneously ditched our ✨responsibilities✨ and drove to Half Moon Bay for a whimsical picnic on the beach and watched the sunset. We spied on our neighbors on the shore who had a romantic proposal with candles and rose petals in the shape of a heart in the sand. We were totally unsuspicious and my roommate definitely did not take pictures of them at all. After the sunset, when it started getting cold, we decided to get back into our car and drive to Shake Shack for a quick dinner, and later grabbed dessert from Salt & Straw. Feeling inspired by our spontaneous trip, we decided to mark the upcoming Sunday for another even more daring adventure: waking up at 5 am and driving to San Francisco to catch the sunrise.

I didn't get any shut eye last night, as I was 2x-speed-watching as many lectures as I could for my finance midterm in a few days. I was personally attacked when I heard the professor casually mention that CS students struggle the most in his class because they don't attend lectures and rely on last-minute cram sessions before the exam that are very ineffective for the nature of this course. Listening to those words as I was painfully aware that I am a literal embodiment of his warning did not bode well for my studying anxiety, but perhaps that was the exact intention of the professor when he uttered those words.

And so my day started off with great promise––sleep-deprived and ravenous, I departed with my housemates around 5 am to drive up north to Marin Headlands. I dozed off in the car and was woken up by the sharp coldness of the air around me when I stepped outside of it. We reached a nice viewpoint that exposed the Golden Gate Bridge and the surrounding vast water of the bay, and waited patiently for the sun to show itself. The blinding yellow light emanating from the sun slowly appeared against the backdrop of orange-purple streaks across the horizon. I was so determined to capture that very moment that I stood for what felt like half an hour with trembling hands clutching my iPhone 8, the camera on time lapse mode and pointed through a gap of the metal wire fence right at the sun. The video turned out to be successful in catching the sunrise, albeit for the intense spazzing of the camera angles that turned what would have been a beautiful scenic clip into a laughable piece of comedy.

Getting back in the car, we snacced on some pita chips and hummus before arriving at our next stop, Mount Tam. And here, ladies and gents, is where everything went down. 

First mistake: we did not bring *water* bottles with us. 

Second mistake: we did not do our research on the trail routes to gauge *distance and time*. 

Third mistake: we were not wearing the *proper attire* for hiking.

Fourth (and fatal) mistake: we ignored sound advice from a member *of our own party* that we *should not hike the trail*.

We started our hike strolling through the sandy dirt trails at the top of the mountain. It was around 9 am when we first set foot onto Mount Tam, so the warmth of the sun was still gentle and comforting. We stood on the rocks and peered down at the shoreline, and bravely decided that the beach was our destination. Thus, we began our descent down the mountain, through the thick understory of the forest where the air was delightfully crisp and the steep trail consisted of dried mud, stones, and jagged brick steps. After awhile, the downwards hike seemed neverending––turn after turn, the towering trees of the forest continued to shroud us and the beach remained a far and invisible goal. Once we finally reached the road that directed us to the beach, about two hours have passed and we were drained of the energy and cheerfulness with which we had commenced our hike.

When the realization settled in that we had to repeat our hike going in the opposite direction, I felt dreadful panic washing over me. It was at this moment that I, realizing this hike was a mistake, said something very pessimistic out loud that shocked even myself. The feeling of accomplishment reaching the shore vanished as we headed back on the trail, this time without the aid of our friend gravity. A little into the hike, half of our party started to noticeably lag behind, and we all arrived at a crossroads decision that resulted in us parting ways. Half of us would quickly climb up and back to the car to retrieve water and food, and the other half would take their time. We estimated it would take at least two hours to hike all the way up, and a bit more to hike partway down to meet each other again.

Crunched on time, we immediately embarked on our journey upwards. The time was around noon, and the sun was burning hot and high in the sky. I remember the aching pain in my thighs and glutes as I stretched my strides as wide as possible and the cotton mouth that I had from intense dehydration. I summoned bits of energy using the adrenaline I had from fear and sleep deprivation to propel me up the mountain, sometimes even running parts of the way up, although it felt more accurately like a clumsy gallop. I never wished to possess the superpower of teleportation as strongly as I did during those two hours. All I wanted to do was return to the car and collapse into a deep sleep after taking those heavenly sips of H2O that my mouth so deeply craved.

Finally, after what seemed like a torturous eternity, we reached the car. I felt shriveled up like a raisin, beaten down by the harsh sunlight for the last quarter of the hike after emerging from the forest. My body dripped of sweat and my head felt light and fuzzy. Never in my life did water, apple slices, and carrot chips taste as good as they did in that very moment. Fortunately, we didn't have to walk much backwards to reunite with our other housemates. Later, slumped in our car, we sheepishly laughed about our naiveté and vowed to never do such a thing again.

Though our experience with Mount Tam fell short of the Mount Tam Cheese with Toasted Acme Bread ice cream that we deliciously enjoyed a few days prior from Salt & Straw, it still turned out to be a very memorable day. Though our journey put my body through an ordeal that I wish to never experience again, it definitely taught me a lot about making bad and uninformed decisions.

See you not anytime soon, Mount Tam. Until next time!