---
layout: post
title:  Shore, Beach
date:   2020-10-25 12:39:31 -0700
categories: blog
image: /assets/img/blog/2020-10-25-mitchells-cove.jpg
---
Sometimes, things happen when you least expect them.

I used to be the kind of person to overthink everything. I used to suffer from insomnia, because I would just lie restlessly in bed, my mind racing with random thoughts as I stared at no particular spot on the ceiling in the darkness. I would overanalyze events that happened that day, and feel emotionally torn by the smallest words and actions that I said and did. The past haunted me and the future scared me, and it felt as if staying awake at night prolonged the present that comforted me.

Growing up, I read quite a few fantasy and dystopian novels. In fourth grade, after finishing the *Harry Potter* series (yes, every childhood dream had to start with something basic), I was inspired to become an author. I yearned to be the next J.K. Rowling––I wanted to create a universe that was as big as the wizarding world of Hogwarts and beyond, characters as memorable as Dumbledore and Snape, and a plot as intricate and addicting as all of the mini stories and side adventures from the septology. I had already written numerous, though tragically terrible, short stories since the second grade, but I decided to embark on writing a full book in sixth grade. The furthest I ever got with one was called *Concealed,* which revolved around a girl and her ever-complicated relationship with her mother after her father mysteriously vanished one night. Unfortunately, years later when I accidentally dug up the Google Doc file, I was overcome by a seizure of regret and embarrassment that caused me to delete the story forever. Maybe in the depths of my old Google Drive accounts, some of my other horribly written stories will pop up and give me a heart attack as well, and be crumpled up and sent to the bottomless virtual trash can along with the others.

Writing was my creative outlet to dispel the negative energy I pent up. I believe it was also through which I developed a stronger faculty for overthinking the small details in life. It's like that age-old meme of "Why is the sky blue?" where readers mistakenly assume that behind even the simplest word choices, there exist a deeper and eye-opening revelation about life that the author mysteriously wanted to convey. My introspection, heightened by my obsession with writing imaginative narratives and drawing fictitious characters out of thin air, ostracized me from the reality around me. Writing was my escape. Writing was my safe haven. Writing was my illusion.

If overthinking was a monster, it assumed its ultimate form when it came to facing personal expectations and rejection. I faced a constant tug of war between the goals and expectations that I set for myself and my own perception of my abilities to achieve them. Oftentimes, I held myself back from trying new things because I was scared of the commitment and possibility of failure. I was scared that I will spend countless of hours on a project, only for it to fail and be forgotten forever. Time is money, except once time is spent, you can never get it back. While you miss 100% of the shots you don't take, you also protect yourself from 100% of the failures. These two realizations thwarted opportunities for me to step outside my comfort zone and shoot for the stars, even if it meant my engine would go out and I would plummet back to earth. Because when I did plummet, I began to blame myself for doing everything wrong. I blamed myself for things I couldn't even change––the way I looked, the way I talked, the ways other people thought of me that I could not control. I viewed rejection as a million different ways in which I was a disappointment, not only to others but myself, and disappointment is a side effect that becomes more and more debilitating the higher the expectations you prescribe to yourself.

Recently, I let go of these toxic expectations. Somehow, in doing that, I learned to stop overthinking. I learned to stop caring so much about things I couldn't change. I learned to live life in the moment, breaking free from the chains of my past and embracing the unknowns of the future, because I didn't want to waste more time in the present. I stopped overanalyzing what I could have done, what I could have said, and what could have happened. I didn't want to waste more thoughts on people who never thought about me. I cut off relationships, not out of spite, but out of bliss––ignorance is bliss, and I had stopped caring about them. 

Meanwhile, I let go of my inhibitions to do things and people that I wanted. Because holding myself back only fueled my bitterness and self-hatred. I no longer shy away from opening myself up to other people, even if I know there is a chance that I might get hurt. Because I found that, in becoming vulnerable with others, they become vulnerable with me, and the walls of protection we build around ourselves come crashing down. I learned to welcome rejection with open arms, even if it still feels painful. Because I realized that the pain of rejection is infinitely better than the pain of regret. I started to appreciate moments that I found joy in, without the guilt of unfulfilled personal expectations. Because the notion of not spending time on things that weren't immediately beneficial to your academic and career goals is self-destructive. Most importantly, I learned to love myself and others. Because, love.

Everything happens for a reason. That reason may be accidental, motivated by external or inherent factors, or directly impacted by your personal choices. As long as you can pinpoint and understand the reason behind why something happened, you can start finding closure in it. After all, closure is what we really seek when we overthink things. We overthink because we start to misconstrue a situation in countless different ways, most of which are absurd, because we don't know which ones aren't. Given an open-ended problem, our minds jump to a thousand conclusions. Only by associating this cloud of mystery and infinite possibilities to a tangible body of reason or conclusion, we are able to reach a state of mental freedom from our worry and fears.

Once we are free, we can let ourselves enjoy the beauty of life.

Because things happen when you least expect them.

Until next time.