---
layout: post
title:  Election Day, Midterms, and Birthdays
date:   2020-11-08 12:39:31 -0700
categories: blog
image: /assets/img/blog/2020-11-08-condy-birthday.jpg
---
This country has never been in such a state of political frenzy as it did this past week. Every person sat on the edge of their seats with their eyes glued to the news on TV, eagerly awaiting the next updated vote count in the presidential election. Shades of red and blue monopolized the screens of all of our devices, as we nervously kept tally of the number of states that were colored by each.

This is the first presidential election that I am able to vote for, and looking at how close the election was, it definitely felt like every ballot counted. Swing states differed by margins of only one or two percent, and the constant flip flop between the two parties in Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin kept many awake in distress. The political indifference and disillusionment among younger voters have been replaced by a flaring indignance felt towards the sitting president and his administration, pushing us towards the polls. This election represented not only our angry frustration, but also an active hope for change.

I was shocked by how close the margins were, and the overwhelming number of votes casted for Trump, despite the despicable, and what I had hoped to be obvious, failures of his presidency. His aggressive rhetoric, lies, and incompetence apparently were not enough to convince people that he was unfit for this role. There were definitely individuals who were tricked by his savvy businessman façade and voted for him in 2016, but now see his true colors and have switched their ballots in 2020. However, there still remain many who stayed supportive and thus complicit in the failures of this country.

Yesterday, Joe Biden was officially called the President-Elect after winning Pennsylvania, which gave him 270 electoral votes. Trump, however, does not concede, demanding for ballot recounts. The blatant double standard he exhibits when he demands ballot recounts in only states in which he lost is ludicrous. On the other hand, while I disapprove of his unprofessional sore-loser mentality, his distrust of the voting by mail system turned out to have some truth, as thousands of mail-in ballots have been considered “lost” or rejected. This can be ascribed to a lack of transparency in the absentee/mail-in voting system, as most people are not even aware of the fact that their ballots were disqualified. Moreover, some ballots were delivered past the deadline, many of which were due to the fault of the USPS. Regardless, Biden came out on top as the winner, and Trump can go to his timeout corner and continue whining about his loss.

Election day definitely seized the crown for being the most eventful occasion this week. It took place smack dab in the middle of my midterm season, as I had four exams in the span of one week, which made for a plentiful amount of frantic cramming sessions. Needless to say, my stress levels were through the roof. Fortunately, though, I was able to relax and enjoy this past weekend with my housemates and friends as part of a desperately needed break from the anxiety-inducing events of this past week.

To celebrate my housemate’s birthday, we surprised her with a trip to the Berkeley Marina, where we planned to go kayaking. Because of the pandemic, students are able to reserve tickets for free, so we decided to take advantage of this wonderful opportunity for her birthday. We drove up to Berkeley on a Saturday morning and arrived around noon, then proceeded to begin our kayaking adventures. This was the first time I have been kayaking, and by the way it turned out, it might be my last (just kidding, but it was still traumatizing).

Toilet bowl. This was the name of the not-an-island-but-really-looked-like-one that my roommate and I found ourselves stranded on, shivering in the cold, drenched in seawater, and contemplating whether we would be able to return home alive. It was probably given the name due to the scraps of trash and random cement blocks that were deposited on this “island,” after being washed up, or rather “flushed down,” by the currents of the bay. How exactly did we get here? You may ask. Well, it was a combination of regretful decisions influenced by our myopia and the overpowering windy currents that drove us helplessly scrambling in our kayak towards the toilet bowl. I remember the exact second when the dreadful realization dawned upon us, as we noticed that our panicked paddling failed to move our boat forward against the intense waves that pushed us in the opposite direction, heading towards the stone wall. The kayaking instructors had warned us to stay within the perimeter of the bay, but we found ourselves hopelessly drifting outside of it. Thus, our best option was to dock on this toilet bowl before we could eventually collide with the stone wall.

Fortunately, we were saved, although the rescue mission felt like it took centuries. We overheard the rescuers say that they had never encountered a situation like this, which made sense considering how much they struggled to throw the rope at us and get us aboard the rescue boat. At that point, my entire body was paralyzed from the cold and all I wanted was to change out of my clothes and drown myself in a hot shower. Later, though, we did grab some delicious spicy Thai food (my medium-spicy pad kee mao made me sweat balls), which we all ate huddled up inside of my heated car. 

The next day, my other friend who lived in Berkeley had a surprise birthday celebration as well; therefore, I stayed overnight in Berkeley so I could make it. Ignoring how much I reeked of seawater, I sat on the grass in Willard Park as we surprised her with our presence (lol) and gifts. Less than thirty minutes in, rain started pouring onto our heads, and we were forced to disperse and go back home. The last meeting with my friend was also sadly cut short by rain, making for a very odd coincidence. The same day, I drove back to Santa Clara where I met up with my housemates again, in preparation for part número dos of my housemate's birthday.

The night ended with eating honey toast––continuing our tradition from high school––and drinking miso soup and other nonsuspicious liquids. A crazy week ended with a crazy night, and it is definitely one to remember.

Until next time!