---
layout: post
title:  Eggs, Eggs, Eggs
date:   2020-11-22 12:39:31 -0700
categories: blog
image: /assets/img/blog/2020-11-22-sanborn-brunch.jpg
---
The past week whizzed by in a blur. Every day began and ended with a [food coma](/blog/2020/11/15/food-comas-parking-tickets.html), filled with spontaneous drives, Zoom calls, and naps in between. As if I didn't get enough of all of that last week, I shamelessly continued that *egg*citing and indulgent lifestyle this weekend as well.

My Saturday morning began bright and early, as my housemates and I paid a trip to 99 Ranch Market to buy some baking ingredients. Our plan was to bake our own mochi muffins, which required rice flour, butter, brown sugar, and vanilla extract, among other necessities. The recipe was relatively simple, as it involved first mixing the dry and wet ingredients separately, then together, and finally clumsily pouring the viscous combination into the muffin pan, making sure that there was noticeable spillover around the edges. It took about 45 minutes to fully bake the muffins to reach a dark and golden brown color, verified by a clean poke in the center with a chopstick. The muffins turned out very *egg*cellent in my opinion, as the crispy exterior decorated by sesame seeds deliciously contrasted the soft and chewy interior, though it took a knife and a few stabbings to *eggs*tract them from the overly sticky pan.

The rest of my late breakfast that day included slurps of a fruit smoothie I made and bites of some radish cakes, or 萝卜糕, which my mom cooked a few days ago and which I simply threw into a pan to fry. My parents would always order radish cakes, sesame balls, and dough sticks from a local Chinese supermarket, and it never failed to stuff our stomachs with delectable goodness. It's safe to say that the mochi muffins, radish cakes, and smoothies were enough to inject, yet another, food coma into our veins, as we fell into a deep afternoon slumber. We awoke to dinner, which was bento box takeout from O2. I find it funny how they always pack the boxes so that the *eggs*plosive chicken or pork would protrude from under the lid, subsequently rendering the rubber bands almost useless in making sure the bento box was capped properly.

The next morning, my really good friend and I decided to sit down and have a nice brunch picnic near a calm and scenic hiking trail in Saratoga. In our attempt to burn off the *egg*normous number of calories we ate the past seven days, we wanted to journey into the woods for a peaceful hike, but ensure, a bit ironically so, that our body was filled with enough caloric energy to do so. We picked up brunch from The Breakfast Club in San Jose, where we ordered Neptune Benedict, Banana Apricot French Toast, Red Velvet Pancake, and Blueberry Lemon Ricotta Cheese Pancake, all of which are pictured above in a single frame of edible perfection. We were barely able to stomach the *eggs* benedict and french toast as we severely underestimated the portion sizes, and had to bring back the pancakes to save for later.

The hike was short yet sweet, as it was more of a light stroll through the forest rather than a challenging form of *eggs*ercise, very unlike my [Mount Tam experience](/blog/2020/10/18/mount-tam.html). My really good friend and I ventured through a few side trails and ended up in a tiny grove that surrounded a fallen tree trunk, which made for a nice bench. I am glad that I was able to get out of the house and wander into nature for some crispy, fresh air to replace all the dusty particles I probably inhaled while staying indoors every day.

Over the summer, slightly brainwashed by the Chloe Ting workout trend and the dozens of Tiktoks I watched of weight losses and glow-ups, I was incredibly motivated to *eggs*ercise everyday. I even reached a certain point where I enjoyed doing plank jacks and up-and-down planks, despite my sworn hatred for anything that required carrying my entire body weight on the scrawny bone pillars that are my arms. As this occurred throughout quarantine, I was unable to freely go on runs in the neighborhood, and so most of my workouts became strictly anaerobic. Nonetheless, I strived to do as much cardiovascular activity as possible. Back in Berkeley, *eggs*pecially during freshman year, I would push myself to go to the RSF every night, where I typically jogged for about 2.5 miles on average, followed by two full sets of ab workouts. Now that I am living at home, I had to improvise by replacing my usual workout routine with a playlist of Youtube workout videos championed by fitness gurus.

Hopefully, I can get back on track with my daily workouts, as my busy schedule of school, clubs, and internship has foiled the completion of my fitness goals. After all, I have to burn off all the *eggs*uisite food I have been eating every day somehow.

Until n*eggs*t time!
