---
layout: post
title:  Thank U, Next
date:   2020-11-29 12:39:31 -0700
categories: blog
image: /assets/img/blog/2020-11-29-thanksgiving.jpg
---
On this national holiday and in the spirit of Ariana Grande’s new album, we shall pay ode to one of her most iconic songs by saying “thank u, next” to all of the tragedies experienced this year.  2020 has been a wild and unexpected rollercoaster ride, and while I am thankful for the many things it has taught me and opened my eyes to, I am *beyond* ready to close this chapter. Obviously, our troubles don’t suddenly cease to exist as soon as that hour hand of the clock ticks past 12 into the new year, but 2020 was definitely a holistic representation of the terrible greatness and fragility of life that *everyone* felt in some way, shape, or form.

That last part intrigues me––the pandemic has undoubtedly affected every individual on Earth. Not even a World War could come close to the number of lives the coronavirus has irreversibly changed and the sheer magnitude with which it has touched different areas of society. We have grown comfortable behind the shields of our masks, made habits of slathering ourselves with hand sanitizer after going outside, and built a fortitude of patience and self-restraint within the walls of our homes. Frontline workers have dedicated an entire year to saving other people’s lives while putting their own in danger. Teachers have gone from seeing the faces of their students everyday in class to talking to an emotionless wall of black screens and names. Students, especially younger ones, have grown detached from school as they lack the personalized, engaging, and nurturing experience of an in-person education. Office workers have become torn between wanting to work from home, returning to the office, or having the flexibility of choosing both. Needless to say, some aspect of our lives have drastically changed, and we were all forced to adapt to it.

This new life is now the new normal. It is scary to ponder what life will be like when the pandemic is over (and who knows when and how that will be). Unfortunately, many people out there have already switched back to living their lives normally, to the despair of those who are still quarantining and respecting the laws of science. With new waves of COVID-19 hitting countries across the globe, it is difficult to imagine that an end is near. Herd immunity is way too unattainable in the perspective of time, and the U.S. cannot contain the virus through stay-at-home orders. Only a vaccine is capable of stopping the spread of such a contagious disease. Even then, there would be slow deployment, pushback from the anti-vax community, and hesitation from the general public.

I have grown numb to the happenings in this country, from the ineptitude of the U.S. government handling the pandemic to the double standard of police brutality and racism and the ever-growing disparity between rich billionaires and the poor. As difficult as it is to give thanks during this turbulent time, I want to acknowledge the privileges that I have and am grateful for.

I am thankful for the simple necessities in life, and the ability to afford much more. I have easy access to food, water, clothes, technology, and a roof over my head, and I am fortunate enough to be free from student debt when I graduate. Though my family is not financially stable, we have enough to afford things that are not immediately essential to our daily lives. As someone who is a chronic victim of retail therapy, I struggle with controlling my urges to splurge on clothes, makeup, skincare, electronics, and home decor, to my own chagrin of claiming to be minimalist. I know that, since I am not financially independent yet, I do not deserve the right to freely spend money, even if I personally earned it, because I rely on my parents' wallet to pay for massive costs like my tuition.

I am thankful for my family, especially my parents who have sacrificed way more than I could ever imagine. They immigrated to the U.S. in the late 1990s with only a couple hundred dollars in their pockets, in a country where the people and language were completely foreign to them. My mom gave birth to me when she was distressingly thin and undernourished, and we joke that it was a combination of that and microwaved milk in BPA bottles that caused my brain damage. Anyway, it was through their hardworking efforts and persistence that they were able to build this life for me and my brother, and nothing I can do will ever come close to repaying that. I am endlessly grateful for the decades of blood, sweat, and tears that my dad invested in his work to bring food to the table and his patience in teaching my forgetful brain math and physics over the years. I am endlessly grateful for the inexplicably large self-sacrifice that my mom made in quitting her job to raise us and the constant and ginormous amount of love and attention, mostly in the form of homecooked meals, that she showers us with.

I am thankful for my friends, who have stuck by my side during the pandemic and with whom I can always trust and share my feelings. I usually struggle with keeping in touch with old friends as my shy and introverted self almost never makes an effort to keep those friendships afloat, which is something that I hope to overcome. Reaching out to people can be tiring and socially draining, so I am very responsive and appreciative when people do it to me. Through Zoom calls, workout sessions, and playing video games, I am able to enjoy the presence of my friends, despite the physical distance between us.

I am thankful for a lot more than the things and people I have mentioned, but I figured I should be consistent with my minimalist attitude and keep it short, simple, and sweet. 

Happy thanksgiving, and until next time!