---
layout: post
title:  It's Okay
date:   2020-10-11 12:39:31 -0700
categories: blog
image: /assets/img/blog/2020-10-11-berkeley-social-club.jpg
caption: Mascarpone Blueberry Crunch French Toast with a side of bacon and eggs
---
My friend brought her grill from home so that we could make our own KBBQ at my other friend's place in Berkeley. The night started with us shopping at a Korean store in Oakland for some thicc meat and ended with us cooking it on the grill, drinking dark & stormy cocktails, and playing some tipsy Catan. Somewhere in between that we also set off the fire alarm in my friend's apartment, which blared annoyingly along with a female voice that calmly and monotonously repeated "Fire" to alert us that there was, indeed, (no) fire. Lessons learned: rip out the fire alarm before you start your indoor KBBQ grill, and don't sit right underneath one.

{% include image.html url="/assets/img/blog/2020-10-11-kbbq.jpg" alt="KBBQ" caption="The calm before the smoke alarm" %}

The next morning, we walked to a nearby outdoor brunch dining place called Berkeley Social Club, where I ordered the Mascarpone Blueberry Crunch French Toast with bacon and eggs on the side (pictured above), and tried some of the Salmon Benedict that my friends ordered, both of which were very flavorful and mouth-wateringly delicious and no, I am not salivating. Settling into my brunch food coma, I met up with another friend, whom I haven't seen in over six months, and bonded over some *tea* while drinking actual tea from Asha Tea House. Thinking about Asha makes me feel nostalgic––I loved ordering boba and mochi donuts or muffins there and struggling to find a seat to study, because all of them would be taken within the first ten minutes of opening and there were a total of two outlets in that entire building, which made for a friendly competition among student customers. I vividly remember it was also where my strange obsession with "Lights Up" by Harry Styles began, but that is beside the point.

{% include image.html url="/assets/img/blog/2020-10-11-salmon-benedict.jpg" alt="Salmon Benedict" caption="I stole a few bites from my friend's plate" %}

That same day, I had a hotpot feast at my other friend's apartment. My stomach probably hated me for the things I put it through this past weekend, but regardless I treated myself to some warm miso soup accompanied by wine and soju. Honestly, I can't remember what I ate besides enoki mushrooms and cabbage, but it was still a very memorable night and dinner. We later played some PUBG Mobile around the dining table––which sounds, and was, very chaotic––and also attempted some multiplayer horror games that we barely made past the tutorials for. We gave up on them because the controls were too finicky and we couldn't figure out how to join the same server. Finally, my really good friend and I tried to watch an episode of *It's Okay to Not Be Okay*, before falling into an inevitable drunk food coma together.

It's okay to not be okay. I thought a lot about the title of this Korean drama, not much in terms of the context of the show, but rather my realization of what the phrase semantically means to me in different ways. I can't really say I relate to the obsessive madness of the female lead or the cold and oblivious demeanor of her male counterpart, but the idea of loving and accepting yourself and others around you unconditionally when you don't feel okay or satisfied in life is something that I both embrace and struggle with deeply.

It's okay to fail. It's okay to be scared of rejection. I have had my fair share of failures, and fair is an understatement. Even after experiencing all those numbing moments of pain and self-loathing, I am still afraid of receiving those dreaded emails of rejections or being told by someone that I am not good enough. I had hoped to become that person who is free of atychiphobia, but I now gladly welcome the feeling of fear and emptiness if that means that I can feel the warmth of pride and fulfillment. After all, courage means that you are scared, and being scared is, quite literally, what keeps you alive.

It's okay to not try sometimes. While pushing yourself to do things that you want to succeed at is important, you should also value the breaths that you take in between where you can take the weights off your shoulders and let them relax. I used to believe that every waking moment of my life must be spent on giving my absolute best in everything that I do. Being a perfectionist, however, comes with the cost of extreme burnout. As someone with little stamina, my mental and physical health suffer immensely from not knowing which tasks and goals to prioritize. I learned the hard way that "not trying" does not necessarily equate to "being lazy," and that I can spoil myself from time to time with rest periods where I am not actively working or trying for something.

It's okay to let go of people who used to be important to you. You can't impress and satisfy everyone, and you also can't keep all your friends forever. "People can go from people you know to people you don't." [🎵](https://youtu.be/0SVaz8VWE84) The idea that some of your closest friends may end up as your enemies or simply strangers that share your memories is a sad and strange concept, but what I learned is that you don't need to make up your relationships with them. Sometimes, they are worth letting go. Finding closure in them does not require the other person's presence or involvement either––it is a process that you engage in with no other individual than yourself.

It's okay to feel lost in life. It's okay to not know what you want to do for your career, where you want to live, and how you want to live your life in general. I learned that it is important to do things that make you happy *now*, in the present. Not later down the line, when you have reached a certain goal, or some ambiguous point in the future when you have a specific number in your bank account, or some other type of materialistic achievement. As long as you are grounded in the present, it's okay to not have a rope tugging you towards a certain direction. It's okay to try different things and realize that you don't like any of them. It's okay to not know what the future holds, and it's okay to be scared of not knowing.

It's okay to not be okay.

Until next time.