---
layout: post
title:  Ten Goals for 2021
date:   2021-01-10 12:39:31 -0700
categories: blog
image: /assets/img/blog/2021-01-10-claremont-photoshoot.jpg
caption: These boots make me feel like Ariana Grande and the dress brings out my inner buff doge
---
With a promising chime of the bell as the clock strikes midnight, the new year ushers in hope, ambition, and opportunity. 

As much as I cherish the unforgettable memories I made in 2020, it would be amiss to not address the fact that my motivation to do work had hit an all-time low this past year, especially during the periods of quarantine around March to May and midway through the fall semester around October to November. In the midst of the thickening fog of self-isolation sprouted a feeling of constant dread, similar to that of an unstoppable treadmill or sleep paralysis. It was as if I was at a standstill while the world kept moving around me. I was stunned by the lack of effort and progress I was making towards achieving my goals. Part of me was too burnt out from the previous year. Part of me faced numerous rejections from roles and organizations that I applied to, and thus felt a strange combination of both fear and complacency that stopped me from trying.

Looking forward to 2021, I hope to revive my motivation to pursue the goals that I set for myself. I hope that writing them down will ultimately hold me accountable. As I am no stranger to failed New Year's resolutions, I hope that I won't be tempted by a bag of excuses and easily let myself off the hook. Meanwhile, I will make sure to prioritize my mental and physical health, as I won't become a prisoner to my work. I will relish the time I spend with family and friends, as well as that I have to myself.

In writing these goals down, I tried to focus on the means rather than the end. In addition, though making a passive or active source of income would be a nice side effect from a few of these goals, I tried to frame my mindset such that the goals I write down are not focused on the numbers or the materialistic gain that I could obtain, but rather my own satisfaction with the hard work and effort that I put in. Without further ado, here is the list of ten goals for the new year:

1. **Start a business.** Since freshman year of college, I was involved in various entrepreneurship on-campus organizations and activities, from remotely interning at a startup to leading accelerator and fellowship programs. For some reason, I would always shy away from *actually* starting my own company, as if my firsthand observations of the crushing tribulations and mountain of roadblocks that startups experienced deterred me from starting my own. After almost a year of taking a break from working with startups, I realized that the longer I waited, the less time I had to experiment and fail. Most importantly, I realized that I would deeply regret it if I didn't start in college, as I have no intention of attending grad school and this would be the last few years before I sign a contract subjugating my life to the industry.

2. **Build and release an app.** The rush of excitement and late-night adrenaline that fills my workaholic soul when I toil away at a website or mobile application is a familiar sensation that I hope to experience again this year. My list of app ideas incessantly grows larger, only to find myself torn between scrapping them entirely or saving them for later, an ambiguous point of time in the future that I foolishly believe I will have more time and energy. Moreover, I want to work on an app that can create a tangible impact for society, which is an overrated statement we are all tired of hearing, but I genuinely want to implement an idea that I wholeheartedly believe will largely benefit others.

3. **Reach and maintain my ideal body shape.** Something that I have always struggled with for the longest time was my body weight, fitness, and flexibility. My painfully sedentary lifestyle does not allow for an easy commitment to a structured diet and workout schedule. As a chronic binge-snaccer during times of stress and midterm seasons, I must make an active effort to restrain myself from my glutinous cravings. (Flashback to my American Literature Honors class when we were required to make an art project based on the "scarlet letter" that represented ourselves: mine, naturally, was *gluttony*. While everyone else made cute paper crafts, I strung a necklace out of Dove chocolates that spelled "G" and wore it to school.)

4. **Learn portrait modeling, photography, and editing.** Recently, I dug up an artifact from the dusty pile of my dad's electronics: an old Nixon DSLR camera from 2012 that our family barely touched. It is probably so ancient that the picture quality can be overshadowed by an iPhone 8, which I still tragically own. Photo is attached above as proof. An ulterior motive of taking pictures of myself is to instill some motivation to achieve those #bodygoals, so I can stop feeling insecure every time I open my Tiktok #fyp. Along the way, I might as well learn how to use Adobe Lightroom so I can stop overusing these VSCO preset filters.

5. **Learn to sew and thrift flip old clothes.** First, I need to muster the courage to buy a sewing machine, while conveniently ignoring that I already dished out $800 for a custom-built PC. Maybe I will make use of that $1 Masterclass subscription I spontaneously bought last year to watch some fashion design and sketching lessons so that I can channel my inner Marc Jacobs. Ultimately, I hope to utilize my sewing skills to clean out my closet and curb my intense shopping splurges, by transforming some clothes that I never wear to ones that I can.

6. **Read one book per month.** High school and college have definitely sucked up all the thirst I used to have for recreational reading, though my poor taste in young adult novels isn't much to miss. Crossing off books from my reading list now feels more like a chore and less of a hobby that I can enjoy in my free time. I have turned from eating healthy literature brainfood to consuming junk 280-character tweets instead. By finishing at least one book per month, I aim to take itty bitty steps throughout the year to motivate myself to get back into reading.

7. **Compose a song.** It's hard to believe that I spent ten years learning piano, accompanied by a short fling with flute in middle school, and came to college dancing around the idea of pursuing a minor in music, only to abandon those thoughts forever. I have always wanted to create my own original piece of music and hope to find the opportunity to do so this year. I also need to listen to more artists and songs in order to avoid the embarrassment that is my Spotify Unwrapped of 2020. I should also wean off this online white noise generator that I religiously use, so I can stop listening to monotone sounds of an airplane and enjoy some oversaturated instrumentals and profanity instead.

8. **Make a multiplayer video game.** This one is admittedly a bit out there, as I don't claim to be anywhere near a gamer, let alone a game developer. I just thought it would be fun and goofy to use my coding skills to make a game that anyone can play with their friends online. Although I have none of the artistic prowess or hacking stamina required to create such a video game, I will nevertheless shoot my shot at this impossible mission. At the moment, I am imagining a very ambitious crossover between *Don't Starve* and *One Night Werewolf*.

9.  **Brush up on my Chinese, Spanish, and Korean.** My goal is to reach the level of fluency where I don't need to rely on reading subtitles when I watch movies and Kdramas––a very lofty goal for my zerolingual ass to reach. Self-teaching a language is definitely a tough trial of your dedication and good memory, of which I possess none. The summer after my graduation, I also hope to travel a shit ton, as I have never gone to Europe and it has been over five years since I last set foot in Asia. 

10. **Update and maintain my side projects.** Putting this last on the list sadly means that I am placing it on the back burner; however, it is still something that I wish to complete. During my summer internship last year, I revived an old project, which I had worked on during the winter break of my freshman year in a hasty attempt to learn React.js and Ruby on Rails. I deleted the entire codebase and built it from scratch into a fully functioning iOS app, Kwizu, that I released on the App Store. This is the third app that I have released in the App Store so far, following Dreamemo and Verze, both of which I have not maintained. This year, I hope to fix my bad habit of leaving my apps to collect dust.

Of course, the last and unspoken goal is to consistently write for my blog, which I hope to update on a normal ~~weekly~~ basis. As it is still a wee baby of five months, my blog has a lot of room for growth and maturity. She may be a crybaby, but she was born with thick skin and determination, although often distracted by intermittent naps, representing the months during which the pace of my classes, clubs, and internship pick up. Anyway, I will strive to put out posts until I reach the point where it no longer brings me joy.

Until next time!
